IDEAS.md, before:

## List of ideas for alternatives

### Bones
rare drop from stone

### Milk
pumpkin seed milk
http://healthyblenderrecipes.com/recipes/homemade_raw_pumpkin_seed_milk

### Ink sac
pumpkin seed oil + resin (spruce tree) + wax (jungle tree leaves/sugarcane) + black pigment (charcoal/coal/iron oxide?)
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Soy_ink
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pumpkin_seed_oil
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Resin
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carnauba_wax
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sugarcane_wax
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pigments#Development_of_synthetic_pigments
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mars_Black_%28pigment%29

### Slimeball
resin? wax?

### Wool
Jungle trees as a source of Kapok? Straw bales as a wool replacement for beds (palliasse)
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ceiba_pentandra
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Straw
http://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/palliasse

### Feathers
See wool; kapok as a 'down' replacement

### String
See leather; jute fibre crafts into string

### Leather
burlap from jute (or ramie?) from ferns in jungle biomes
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fiber_crop
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jute
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hessian_%28cloth%29
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Malvaceae
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ramie

### Gunpowder
sulfur as a rare drop from netherrack + charcoal + saltpeter?
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gunpowder

### Rotten flesh
?

### Nether star
?

### Blaze rod
?


=========================================================================
Misc things
=========================================================================

Jungle trees as a source of Kapok (leather/wool/string alternative)?
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ceiba_pentandra

Sugarcane as a source of Kenaf (leather/string alternative)?
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kenaf

Commit message:

Giant update with some half-finished stuff

IDEAS.md, after:

## List of ideas for alternatives

### Bones
rare drop from stone

### Milk
pumpkin seed milk
http://healthyblenderrecipes.com/recipes/homemade_raw_pumpkin_seed_milk

### Ink sac
pumpkin seed oil + resin (spruce tree) + wax (jungle tree leaves/sugarcane) + black pigment (charcoal/coal/iron oxide?)
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Soy_ink
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pumpkin_seed_oil
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Resin
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carnauba_wax
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sugarcane_wax
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pigments#Development_of_synthetic_pigments
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mars_Black_%28pigment%29

### Slimeball
resin (from spruce trees)
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Resin

### Wool
Jungle trees as a source of Kapok? Straw bales as a wool replacement for beds (palliasse)
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ceiba_pentandra
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Straw
http://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/palliasse

### Feathers
See wool; kapok as a 'down' replacement

### String
See leather; jute fibre crafts into string

### Leather
burlap from jute (or ramie?) from ferns in jungle biomes
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fiber_crop
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jute
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hessian_%28cloth%29
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Malvaceae
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ramie

### Gunpowder
sulfur as a rare drop from netherrack + charcoal + saltpeter?
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gunpowder

### Rotten flesh
rotten plants (half-composted plant matter)

### Nether star
?

### Blaze rod
plastic rod + rosin + wax + flint & steel

### Pufferfish
frozen bubble
used in potion brewing

### Ender Pearl
frozen bubble + raw/liquid ender
- some sort of block to create a mini-end portal (ender rift)
- water flowing into the ender rift removes the water source block and replaces the portal block with a liquid ender source block
- must be done at night or there are negative consequencs (explosions seem too mundane?)
- perhaps negative consequence could be teleporting the player that placed the block to the block (exploitable? is that bad?)

## Misc things

Sugarcane as a source of Kenaf (leather/string alternative)?
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kenaf

Cook potato starch in a furnace to get Bioplastic?
http://green-plastics.net/posts/10/video-brandon121233/
used as the 'shaft' of faux feathers? might need more usage to justify it existing

Cook resin in a furance to get Rosin?
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rosin
not sure what the potential uses would be; might be out of the scope of this mod

Limit egg replacers to recipes with food outputs?
